Chibrary
========

A website to archive mailing list messages and present them a highly readable one-thread-per-page display.

Chibrary is also an experiement in object-oriented design, see my talk for more information:

https://push.cx/2015/railsconf

Influences:
  Sandi Metz: Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby, Magic Tricks of Testing
  J.B. Rainsberger: Integration Tests Are A Scam
  Gary Bernhardt: Boundaries; Functional Core, Imperative Shell
  Eric Evans: Domain Driven Design

# Install

Install instructions
* Install Riak 1.4.8
* Install Redis 2.4.15
* Run `bundle install` to install the gems

Running
* Local server: `shotgun`
* Jobs: sidekiq -q thread -q month_count -q default
  (always do threads before month counts so they're not off)

_Warning_: The ThreadWorker has a race condition, and only one copy can run at a time. See its description for more information.


From the bottom up:

## Values

Values are immutable objects without identity or state, They are small, reliable data structures. These should all prepend the DeepFreeze module. If any wanted to use attr_accessor, it would not be a Value.

A few are persisted. They are never updated, though they may be discarded and replaced. Arguably this makes them an Entity, but they have no code and I don't want them built in a mutable way.

### CallNumber

The unique ID of a Message, and thus a Thread (because it's the root message of the thread). It is 8 characters long and composed solely of a-z, A-Z, 0-9.

[Blog post on the design](http://push.cx/2014/distributed-id-generation-and-bit-packing-chibrary)

### Email

The raw data for an email as scraped or received, with Headers extracted from it.

### Headers

Thin wrapper around RMail::Parser and its Header objects to parse and extract headers. Note that this is plural, one object acccesses all headers, and it does not recognize when being asked for a date/subject/message-id header to return a specialized class. (Maybe this should change.)

### MessageId

The hopefully-unique ID of an Email generated by the original sender. Can be maliciously duplicated. Often missing in scraped archives.

### MonthCount

Count of Threads and Messages for one month of a List.

### Slug

The unique ID for a List.

### Subject

The subject line of an Email. Can normalize, to strip Re/Fwd gunk, which is often seen as n_subject.

### SumCount

The sum of many MonthCounts.

### Summary

A stripped-down version of a Message, used to store smaller objects when working with Threads.

### Sym

Slug, year, and month. Unique identifier for a List's month page. Previously Threads were sorted grouped by Sym.

### Sy

Slug and year. I have no idea why this object ever existed, but I remember feeling it was important to have.

### ThreadLink

A Sym, CallNumber, and Subject are used to make links to next/previous Threads on the Thread Route.


## Entities

$$$ Container

Used to track not-yet-seen Messages in Threads.

### List

A mailing list.

### Message

The mutable part of an email, allowing replacing an email, changing which list the email is on, and overlaying some of the headers used for threading becaues that's often easier than updating the threading code for one edge case and hoping it doesn't break others.

### Thread

A discussion of many Messages.

## Adapters

Currently living in service/ (they're waiting for a rename), the Adapaters isolate side effects like talking to other systems.

## Repos

Adapters specifically about retrieving from and saving to the database.

## Web

The web frontend for the site. Individual pages are in `web/route`.
